***Glittershard’s End - Lorebook***
===================================
***Races:***
------------
***Angelic:***

The angelic races are those that live above the clouds. They are universally agile due to their home environment. Before knowledge was spread, they were considered messengers of the gods.

**Divines:**

The divines are a race that look roughly humanoid in nature. Their skin is white as marble, with blue veins showing all over their body radiating out from the center of the chest, where their heart is located. Their eyes are solid black orbs, and hair does not grow on their bodies. It is hard for non-divines to tell them apart until much time has been spent among them. Divines live about twice as long as humans, and mature just as slowly. In terms of physical strength, they are roughly on par with humans. Divines do not walk so much as float. While they cannot fly, this allows them to navigate their sky city without the difficulty most races have. This makes them seems taller than they really are.

Divines are said to be what will replace the natural races in the future, being so much more powerful. This is mainly said by the divines themselves, needless to say. Their very culture pushes them to view themselves as superior to all others, an attitude that grates on many of the other race’s nerves. Here and there a more sympathetic Divine will show up, but they are the exception.

Avg height: 4’6” - 5’6”

Avg weight: 100 - 145 lbs.

Lifespan: 160 years

Languages: angelic, common

**Winged Folk:**

The winged folk are humanoids with a large pair of elliptical wings, allowing for precise flight. They tend to resemble the natural races, with skin similar skin tones and hair colors. Their wings match the color of their hair. Their wingspan tends to be about twice their own height when stretched out to their maximum length, though they keep the wings tucked tight against their backs when not flying to allow easy access through doorways, smaller tunnels...

The winged folk tend to be a lot nicer than the divines, largely due to more frequent access to the surface. They mix with all societies, eager to learn and find out about the world below. In contrast, most societies consider the winged folk as holy creatures of one sort or another: very few races find winged folk unattractive.

Avg height: 5’0” - 6’6” (Wings add extra 6” on avg when tucked up)

Avg weight: 75 - 110 lbs.

Lifespan: 80 years

Languages: angelic, common

***Beastial:***

The beastial races are all animalistic. Whether it’s because they were animals until magic got to them, or because a curse was placed upon them, they have an animalistic side that improves their senses, makes them stronger, faster. In days past, the bestial races were hunted like animals.

**Centaur:**

Centaurs are plains-runners, with the legs of a horse and the upper body of a human. They run swiftly, their hooves carrying them great distances when they so choose. They have roughly human features with pointy ears, and their hair matches their tails. Their coats are usually a shade off of the tail color. Centaurs are muscular by nature, and their large bodies provide them with additional resilience in battle.

Centaurs are nomads by nature, roaming from place to place, rarely settling down in cities. When they do, they tend to be carriers or smiths, utilizing their strength to make some of the finest weapons around. Centaur steel is highly sought after.

Avg height: 7’0” - 8’6”

Avg weight: 325 - 425 lbs.

Lifespan: 60 years

Languages: common

**Dragonkin:**

The dragonkin are bipedal reptiles. Their skin comes in all colors, black to white, red to green to blue to all sorts of metallic sheens. Their eyes are black with gold rings outlining their pupils. Dragonkin are larger than most creatures, which makes it hard for them to crawl through tight spaces. They have tails which are not prehensile, but do a good job of helping the creatures maintain their balance doing acrobatic stunts. Their teeth are spiked, not suited to eating vegetables. They have a small sack in their lungs to infuse the air they breath with magic, allowing them to spit magic at their enemies.

Dragonkin are said to descend from dragons: While this is plausible, there isn’t any proof that this was the case. The dragonkin are a proud race, flouting their heritage and holding honor as an important virtue. Dragonkin frequently enlist in armies given their aptitude for war, though there is a risk that they will abandon a cause mid-battle if they decide it’s not honorable.

Avg height: 10’0” - 12’8” (Includes tail)

Avg weight: 250-350 lbs

Lifespan: 70 years

Languages: common, draconic

**Sapient animal:**

Sapient animals come in all shapes and sizes. From bunny rabbits to grizzly bears, spiders to birds, otherwise mundane animals get infused with magic and become sapient. THis is sometimes caused by natural wells of magic, and sometimes by the experimentation of mages. For some reason, this process only seems to occur in creatures that are otherwise non-magical. The process that gives an animal its intelligence also gives it the ability to speak and understand languages. A newly created sapient will need to learn a language unless created by a mage.

As of recent years, it has become considered a crime in most areas to kill sapient animals as if they were not, though this is a new convention. As such, sapient animals tend not to trust quickly, but once trust is built it remains. In general, the mammalian sapients tend to be treated better due to the majority of races being mammalian.

Sizes, weights, and languages are all subject to the creature they used to be and where they used to live. Lifespan expands to roughly 60 years on average.

**Slimes:**

Nobody's quite sure where slimes came from. Some say that they used to live in the caverns under the continent of Glittershard. Some say that a mage created them in an experiment, though what the experiment would have been is hard to guess. Either way, slimes are a sapient race.

Slimes can change their color at will, allowing them to look like anyone or anything. When sleeping or unconscious, they return to an amorphous blob of goop, which has one set color. Blue and red are common, with yellow and green rarer and other colors very rare. Slimes can carry things inside their bodies, making backpacks redundant.

Slimes are not known for their intelligence. The majority of them are better served as guards or hired muscle, though there are a few recorded instances of book mage slimes.

Avg height: 2’0”-3’0”

Avg weight: 100 - 150 lbs

Lifespan: 30 years

Languages: Common

**Werebeast:**

Werewolves seem to be naturals or fey at first, but they can transform into a creature at will. The most common forms are timber wolves, followed by bears.

Werebeasts do not lose or gain mass when transforming, meaning that a medium entity will have to transform into a medium creature. When transforming, backpacks and pouches will drop to the ground. Shoulder bags will remain on the werebeast’s back.

Average heights, weights, lifespans, and languages are the same as their natural or fey form. Their natural or fay form is average, not very powerful.

***Demonic:***

**Changelings:**

Changelings are the result when a demonic and a fey breed. They look like elves when unchanged, though with solid white eyes and hair that seems to cover the entire spectrum at once. Changeling tend to be stocky, without much muscle to them.

**Demons:**

**Satyrs:**

**Succubi/incubi:**

**Tainted naturals:**

***Fey:***

**Dryads:**

**Faeries:**

**Elementals:**

**High Elves:**

**Naiads:**

**Wood Elves:**

***Natural:***

**Elflings:**

**Giants:**

**Halfers:**

**Humans:**

***Undead:***

**Lich:**

**Vampire:**

**Zombie:**

***Classes:***
--------------
**Assassin:**

Assassins are those that are hired exclusively to kill others. They dedicate their lives to the art of killing, and their skills reflect this. Some hide in the shadows to lash out with a dagger at the last second, some climb the tallest towers and fire arrows down on their victims, all are gone before anyone even realizes their victims are dead.

Assassins are masters of combat. They know how to use both melee and ranged weapons, and are better at using them together than others. They move through the night, and are hard to pin down in one place.

Assassins typically aren’t moral. Very few have the luxury of choosing their contracts, and the lifestyle wears down on them. Those that stop killing for money for any given reason tend to become adventurers. Adventuring suits them well, as they can kill targets to help people rather than over petty grudges and perceived insults.

There is a guild of sorts for assassins in Dhahmer’s Ruins. When attempting to hire one, it is best to head to the lawless city.

**Berserker**

**Book Mage**

**Concocter**

**Coroner**

**Druid**

**Elementalist**

**Enlightened**

**Flesh Render**

**Guard:**

Guards are put through a strict training regime, giving them high accuracy with crossbows. They spend most of their time in cities,

**Juggernaut**

**Lancer**

**Medic**

**Monk**

**Noble**

**Performer:**

Called Bards in some lands, Performers specialize in magical music. Their instruments allow them to weave spells without magical focuses or spell components, bringing their songs to life.

Performers are usually found out on the streets, playing their trusty instruments to earn them change. The more successful Performers play before kings, their music literally painting scenes in the air for the delight of the kings. Performers are not hard to locate, given how many hopeful young men and women wish to escape the life of a farmer.

Performers tend not to have the best combat skills, due to lack of training. The typical attitude lends more towards using aiding magic then attacking magic, the songs more peaceful.

**Ranger:**

Rangers are hunters, skilled with bows and small melee. They spend most of their time in the wild, giving them excellent navigational skills

**Ressurector**

**Rogue**

**Shaman**

**Spellsword**

**Swordmage**

**Theif**

**Tinker**

**Titan**

**Wildman**

***Land:***
-----------
The main continent of Glittershard is divided into six territories. These territories are each governed by their own ruler, and in many cases are not friendly to neighbors. In addition to the main landmass, there is an archipelago off the west coast, and there is a city in the sky.

In years long past, the land was united under an emperor. The emperor was the one who spread knowledge throughout the land, erasing the ignorance of his peoples in an effort to unite everyone under one banner against the incursion of several high powered demons. The emperor was successful in quelling the incursion, stopping the portal, but at the cost of his own life. His two sons quickly attempted to ascend to the throne, and when neither would back down, they split the continent in two. The older had the eastern portion, the younger the west. However, their subjects were not as compliant with the two sons as they were with the emperor. This lead to even more fracturing of borders, leading to the situation currently present.

**Dhahmer Ruins**

The old capital when the emperor was in power, the city ceased to be a seat of power, and shortly thereafter ceased to be a city. The ruins lay dormant for a few hundreds of years before anyone decided to make their home here again.

Dhahmer is a desert region, located in the center of the continent. It is built around an oasis that provide the immediate region with the water needed to survive.

Dhahmer is probably the most diverse racially of all of the current territories. This is a direct result of the given philosophy of the land: Money above all. Dhahmer settlers were able to get the old trade routes running again, and made themselves the center of trade for the whole continent. To chase after funds as ruthlessly as they can, laws fell to the wayside. Thus, all sorts of things are legal here. Slavery, thievery, even murder as long as nobody spots you. During the day it’s safe enough for wealthy merchants to do business, though very few decide to stay the night.

Dhahmer has no centralized authority. With the lack of legal repercussions, the only thing stopping the other territories from attempting to seize the land is the fierceness of those who choose to dwell here. Even high mages are given pause.

A Dhahmer character is likely to be focused on money. The area is ruthless to those without it, and money is the only form of law they have. Dhahmer produces lots of thieves and assassins, as well as a few entertainers. All kinds come to and live in Dhahmer, so it’s not unusual to see a Lich or a sapient bear hocking their wares.

**Fuwenias**

Fuwenias used to be a place of learning and understanding. The emperor’s great libraries were housed here, and scholars from far beyond the seas would come to read the collection.

When the emperor fell, his son put one of the premier magicians of the time in charge of the libraries and never looked back. There’s a blank period here as the head mage closes hs borders to outsiders. From the few accounts that survive, we can conclude that the head mage had been experimenting with dangerous magic, which managed to destroy giant swathes of the library. Many suspect it involved undead, as ever since that incident the undead have not been allowed within the walls of Fuwenias.

The city itself isn’t that large, built into the mountains as it is. Itis well defended by the mages that continue to try to restore the libraries to their former glory. It would be the smallest territory aside from the fact that their territory happens to include the entire mountain range. This range serves as the border between Glittershard Capital and the territories of Muskarssh.

The leader of Fuwenias is a halfer mage by the name of Brenduin Jassock. He rules that might makes right, and detests the fake emperor to the north for being so weak, and curses the demons to the south for not knuckling under.

A character from this region is likely to hate the undead without reservation, but otherwise be on the good side of things. Naturals, Fey, and Beastkin are the most prevalent, though there are a few Angelic and Demonic scholars hanging around. White magic users of all types tend to come out of Fuwenias given it’s heavy historical bent towards magic.

**Glittershard Capital (Gradysville)**

One could be forgiven for thinking the former name was a joke: After
all, the land hardly looks like capital material. There are no forts, no
stone walls to mark the borders. No, all that can be seen is rolling
meadows and some nice wooden fences once in the northwestern area of the
continent.

Back when the emperor was in charge, the entirety of the gentle rolling
hills and green meadows was farmland. The majority of its export remains
agricultural in nature to this day. So why is it called the Capital? The
younger son of the emperor, forced from the old city of Dhahmer, sought
refuge with his mother in Gradysville. From there, the timid boy claimed
the surrounding land for Gradysville, which he then renamed to be the
new capital.

The human male who currently sits the throne, by the name of Lackersey
Gallo, claims to be a direct descendant of the younger son. He rules
over his land from his cottage, and goes out to help with the harvests
like any other man. WHatever his lineage, he has done right by his
people. Still, nobody outside of the Capital treats him as anyone
important, let alone his word as law.

The population of the Capital is largely Naturals and Beastkin. Most of
the people have roots in the local soil spanning generations. The quiet
countryside breeds those of even temperament such as monks and knights
with regularity. They tend to be good people, with a heavy bent on law
and order.

**Keiran Falls**

Officially the smallest of the territories, Keiran falls is exactly the
size of its city. Situated on the cliffs lining the northern coast of
Glittershard, Keiran falls is sometimes called the city of glass. It is
said to have beautiful works of art lining the streets, which happen to
be made of gold, and the water so clear magic hardly interacts with it.

It’s hard to validate those claims when they haven’t opened their doors
for hundreds of years. Nobody on the outside knows how the feed their
populous, or what the city looks like, or even if anyone’s still alive
in those walls. Of course, as any of the soldiers who had marched on
those walls in a futile effort to seize the area, it’s far from
undefended.

The truth is that it is a thriving city, but only through trade with
Skeirhom. The angelic peoples have convinced those inside the walls that
all outside peoples are savages bent on their destruction. The frequent
attacks only served to reinforce that opinion. The general population is
terrified of the outside, and the bravest of the brave spend an *entire
week* on the walls, watching for any attackers.

The current ruler is hardly worth mentioning, as he does nothing but
party while the real power behind the throne, Belareth Wysdon, the
divine mets out orders in his place.

People from Keiran are either timid or brash, thinking their brief time
on the wall made them into badasses. They have many mages among their
population, but no libraries to create scholars, so there is very little
book magic around. Only Naturals and Angelic live in Keiran, excluding
Dryads as well. Anyone claiming to be from Keiran who doesn’t meet these
criteria should be met with suspicion.

**Liesgarten**

Leisgarten is the home of the fey. It has been since before the emperor,
which is about as far back as anyone can remember, even the fey
themselves.

Leisgarten is located off of the west coast of Glittershard, on a
heavily forested Archipelago. The chain of island sprout the most
colorful trees, the most fragrant flowers, and the most vibrant
wildlife. Every non-fey species is grateful that the islands are far
enough out to sea that none of the wildlife can swim over to the
mainland. The fey islands are home to the most vicious wildlife and
plantlife possible. The fey themselves don’t seem to notice.

While they fey mostly keep to themselves, the occasional curious one
will make the journey to the mainland and attempt to integrate into
Glittershard society, with limited success.

The majority, if not every single one, of the fey are magical. Light
magic, dark magic, even their own twisted form of book magic. A
character from Leisgarten is more than likely magically inclined. The
fey are not savages, despite the communication problem, and many of them
enjoy talking to scholars. The fey tend towards true neutral, as their
own morals are so far off of standard it’s hard to reconcile their good
with human’s good.

**Muskarrsh**

Muskarsh isn’t really one territory. It’s a bunch of little ones, all of
whom have their own leader who goes to negotiations for the benefit of
all of Muskarrsh. This system has worked well for the denizens of the
territory, as it now spans the entirety of the southern coast, and
halfway up the west side as well.

Muskarrsh is a territory of Demonic races. When the emperor was forced
to close the portals back to the netherworld to keep the powerful demons
out, he inadvertently forced all of the demonic forces already on the
ground to stay. Instead of rampaging all over, the demons made
themselves a society and attempted to integrate into the natural’s
society. The succeeded, somewhat. Despite the many, many intervening
years, some people still irrationally fear demonkind, despite all the
evidence to them being about as peaceful if not more the the Natural
races.

Muskarrth is mostly forested, with a few swamp patches near the
southeastern border. Its climate is more humid than the northern parts
of Glittershard, and it rarely snows that far south.

Characters from the demon lands can be of any sort. While the majority
of the population is demonic, there are quite a lot of other races mixed
in. Muskarrth welcomes all with open arms. The people tend to be more
easygoing and playful, many a bard has come out of Muskarrth.

**Narphreeta**

Once the seat of the oldest son of the emperor, Narphreeta sits along
the East coast. It contains the largest area of any one territory,
narrowly beating out Muskarrsh. The area is temperate, though prone to
storms.

The center of the area is home to cities. Not just one: there are lots
of individual cities that are clustered together into one giant city.
This leads to large groups of highly specialized people in one sub-city
or another.

The ruler of Narphreeta is Queen Therissia, a Naiad who comes from one
of the many streams running through the area. She rules with a gentle
hand, allowing her subject autonomy in most things, though there is a
substantial peacekeeping force.

Despite its heritage, ever since the queen took over no naturals have
been allowed within its borders unless there is a very, very important
reason. This leads to many races, from the fey to the angelic and the
undead, to gather if they are disillusioned with the natural races.

People from Narphreeta are of all types, aside from naturals. They don’t
have the same quality libraries as Fuwenias, but they manage to have
sufficient magic education to produce some fine Book mages. Characters
from this region tend to have a grudge against the natural races,
justified or no. Those who have never set foot outside are told stories
to scare them, which ensures the borders will be closed long into the
future through fear.

**Skierhom**

Skierhom is the home of the angelic races. It has no particular
location, instead drifting across the continent among the clouds.
Indeed, it is largely believed that the city is made of clouds itself, a
notion supported by what little can be dragged from the tongues of it’s
inhabitants.

The city is rarely visited by those that roam the surface. Not because
of closed borders, or any type of segregation. No, it’s because the area
is hard to traverse unless you can fly. The city is endlessly shifting
around, and gaps can appear in the roads at any time. It’s a long way to
fall. The city itself is a brightly lit place, having very few clouds
above it to block out the sun on any given day. Water is plentiful, but
food is relatively scarce. This is what forced the angelic races to
contact the surface in the first place, a need for greater sustenance.

The city is accessed through magical portals or by the great winged
beasts called Skierfwol. Portals are unreliable when the city is moving
at a high speed, and it takes a lot of magical energy to keep them open.
Only the richest of travelers is able to get themselves a portal up to
the city.

The characters from this area are likely to be light magic users: While
this tends to mean angelic folk, some of the braver spend time in the
clouds to learn light magic from beings that embody this branch of
magic. The angelic themselves do not always pursue magic, and several
historical heros have been winged or divines who brandished a sword
instead of a wand.

***Magic:***
------------
Magic is very common in Glittershard. Many races inherently use it, and
those that don’t have it by default can learn it. It’s not used for
mundane applications, however, since magic carries a risk.

All magic consumes energy. Mages learn how to focus their own energy
into an attack or a spell, which drains their magical stamina. Magical
stamina reserves must be built up with repeated use. When a mage’s
magical stamina is exhausted, attempting to cast a spell will cause harm
to the user, draining their life away to fuel the spell. In addition,
spells generally require some extra magical power from some physical
source. These are generally labeled “Spell components.”

There are three schools of magic that do not mesh with each other.
Gaining skill in one skill will not gain skill in another, though the
user’s Magical stamina will grow no matter the magic used.

Despite being labeled light and dark magic, there is no inherently good
or evil in magic. As with a sword or a bow, magic is how it is used, not
its very use. For example, using lightning does not make an entity evil,
using the lightning on peasants does.

**Light Magic:**

Light magic is the magic of creation. This kind of magic comes naturally
to all Fey. This magic is present in natural beasts and even the land
itself, if an area becomes saturated with light magic. This can cause
strange areas where water springs from nowhere, the earth shifts, Plants
grow out of control, and the air whips around violently. Light magic is
versatile.

-   Air: This magic manipulates air currents, redirecting their flow,
    > making impossibly fine edges, and removing the air from an area
    > entirely, creating a void. Can also be used to create sounds or
    > muffle sounds.

-   Earth: This magic is focused on rocks and dirt, which allows a mage
    > to create walls instantly, make traps, create armor, and create
    > golems to fight for them.

-   Health: This magic is used to heal entities. It magically fixes
    > bones and flesh without needing knowledge of anatomy. It can only
    > be done so many times before it stops working on an
    > individual patient.

-   Nature: This magic deals with plant life. A mage can use it to
    > create small allies in a fight, or grow antidotes and food, or
    > create traps for the unwary.

-   Water: Water magic can be used as armor, to create weapons, to
    > manipulate the weather, to breath underwater, and to create walls.

**Dark Magic:**

Dark magic is the magic of destruction. This kind of magic comes
naturally to all Undead. This magic is present in natural beasts and
even the land itself, if an area becomes saturated with Dark magic. This
causes Strange areas where the land rots unnaturally, flames burn
endlessly, lightning strikes continuously, ice forms in summer, and the
dead come back to life. Dark magic is powerful.

-   Cold: This magic can be used to create paths, destry containers of
    > liquid, freeze entities in their tracks, and create weapons to
    > attack with.

-   Fire: This magic can be used to start fires, create fireballs, and
    > heat up cold areas. It can provide light, and animals
    > instinctively fear it.

-   Lightning: The fastest magic, it can increase reflexes, create a
    > protective cage, destroy weapons, and hit enemies directly for a
    > lot of damage.

-   Necrosis: Necrosis heals undead, and destroys everything else. It
    > can be used as an attack, a magical heal akin to light magic
    > healing, and as armor. Necrosis can also be used as area denial.

-   Resurrection: The ability to create undead servants. Rush jobs don’t
    > last very long, but don’t consume much magic, perfect for
    > battlefield emergencies. Small undead creatures can be used
    > as traps.

**Book Magic:**

Book magic is gained from hard studies. As opposed to light and dark
magic, these branches do not occur in nature and must be extensively
researched to ensure the caster survives the experience. Since this
magic does not occur naturally, no unthinking beast has access to this
magic. Book magic is situational

-   Biology: A study of healing the body. This magic utilizes potions
    > and concoctions to restore someone to health. This method is
    > slower than light magic healing, and requires material components
    > to fortify the subject’s health. It is effective every
    > time, however.

-   Enchantment: The practice of imbuing items with magic. This includes
    > weapons, armor, trinkets, potions, and other physical items.
    > Enchanters can make constructs.

-   Force: This magic is used to create weapons, create constructs, and
    > bludgeon enemies to death. It is application of pure,
    > direct force.

-   Illusion: This magic deals with the mind. Mental control, creating
    > light, hiding passageways. Illusion magic debilitates the enemy.

-   Spatial: This magic deals with areas. It can be used to make traps,
    > build walls, create zones with special effects.

***Important People and Organizations:***
-----------------------------------------
**The Emperor:**

Status: Dead

The Emperor was the man who unified the entirety of Glittershard. He was the one responsible for the enlightenment, when the common man could learn and bigotry was wiped away. His name is lost to time, though all agree he was a great man.

**The younger son:**

Status: Dead

A weak man, both in willpower and in physical strength. He ran back home to his mother when he failed to claim the Emperor’s throne, and his territory continues on it’s peaceful ways regardless. His name has been lost to history.

**The older son:**

Status: Dead

Created the biggest territory on the whole continent through sheer charm when he failed to claim the throne. Was considered a good ruler, but instituted some practices that caused a rebellion for his descendants to handle, ultimately leading to the current situation in Narphreeta.

**Queen Therissia:**

**Belareth Wysdon:**

**Lackersay Gallo:**

**Brenduin Jassock:**

***The New Enemy:***

Glittershard has always been plagued by monsters. None particularly question it, it’s simply a fact of life. Recently, however, rifts in the air have been appearing and abominations are pouring out onto the continent. Not much is known about these creatures. They don’t follow our biological rules, they don’t seem to communicate, and they are vicious.

Fortunately, hitting them really hard with swords, bows, and magic still seems to work just fine. Since these creatures start attacking as soon as they appear, there is a standing kill-on-sight order that every leader worth his salt will respect. Some will even pay for each head collected.

**Blurb:**

The world of Glittershard is coming to an end. Nobody knows why, though each of the eight city-states suspects that one or more of the others had something to do with it. Join in the adventure to save to world from utter destruction at the hands of an unknown enemy.

**To Do:**

Write up entries for all classes and races

Write more character biographies:

The angels need a leader.

The Dhahmer Ruins needs a mob boss to serve as a leader.

The fey need a representative (high elf, very powerful mage)

The demons need a representative to speak for the collective.

Another party of adventurers

A mercenary agency or two

Prominent traders

A map of Glittershard needs to be drawn.
