***Glittershard’s End - Technical manual***

***Character Creation:***

Glittershard’s End uses the D20 system, so you will need 1 d20, 1 d12, 1
d10, 1 percentile, 1 d8, 1 d6, and 1 d4 to be able to play, along with a
piece of paper and a pencil.

***Creating a character:***

To create a character, Several things must be decided up front:

-   Race

-   Gender

-   Class

-   Name

-   Alignment

-   Stats

-   Age

Additionally, it is possible to describe a character physically, give
them a backstory, and give them a personality and motivations.

-   Gender, Alignment, Age and Name help come up with a character.

-   Stats, Race, and Class are important to a character mechanically.
    > Any of the three can be chosen first, depending on how you would
    > like to build the character.

-   Once all three are chosen or rolled, write down Stats with any
    > bonuses from Race

-   Write down Size and Speed

-   Write down Traits given by Race

-   Write down 1st level perks

-   Calculate and write down Max HP

-   Calculate Max Magical Stamina

-   Write down Max Recovery

-   Write down the appropriate number for each skill, adding +2 to any
    > skills trained by the class.

-   Write down how much gold your class grants you and items granted by
    > class

-   Write down Max weight.

-   Write down Armor in the “body” slot under armor or wearables, and
    > write armor rating in the Rested State section.

-   Calculate Dodge

-   Calculate Melee and Ranged weapons accuracy and damage

-   If your character is magical, pick spells as appropriate.

***Stats:***

Stats start at 0. 0 is considered average for a human.

The 8 stats are:

  Strength (Str)   Health (Hea)       Dexterity (Dex)   Charm (Cha)
  ---------------- ------------------ ----------------- ----------------
  Wit (Wit)        Light magic (LM)   Dark magic (DM)   Survival (Sur)

To assign stat scores, take one +4, one +3, two +2’s, two +1’s, a 0, and
a -1 and assign one to each score. Or, roll 8d6 and subtract two from
all rolls to create a new array. If total of all post- subtraction dice
is less than 8, re-roll.

***Skills:***

  Name                  Key skills   Calculation       Description
  --------------------- ------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------
  Animal Handling       Sur, Cha     Sur + ½ Cha       Ability to work with animals
  Artistry              Dex          Dex               Used for drawing and carving
  Book - Biology        Wit          WIt               Non-magical medicines
  Book - Enchanting     Wit          Wit               Magic infused in mundane objects
  Book - Force          Wit          Wit               Application of force against a target
  Book - Illusion       Wit          Wit               Sense tricking magic
  Book - Spatial        Wit          Wit               Magic dealing with an area
  Brute force           Str          Str               Forcing through obstacles
  Dark - Cold           DM           DM                Creates cold
  Dark - Fire           DM           DM                Ability to control fire
  Dark - Lightning      DM           DM                Ability to control Lightning
  Dark - Necrosis       DM           DM                Causing flesh to rot
  Dark - Resurrection   DM           DM                Necromantic arts
  Deception             Cha, Dex     Dex + ½ Cha       Sleight of hand
  Exploration           Sur          Sur               Navigation, reading maps
  Freerunning           Str, Dex     Str + Dex         Ability to navigate quickly
  Judgement             Sur + Cha    Cha + Sur         Determine if someone is lying
  Light - Air           LM           LM                Using air magic
  Light - Earth         LM           LM                Using earth magic
  Light - Health        LM           LM                Magical healing
  Light - Nature        LM           LM                Using Nature magic
  Light - Water         LM           LM                Using Water magic
  Lockpicking           Dex          Dex               Unlocking non-magical locks
  Perform               Cha, LM      Cha + ½ LM        Ability to use instruments, dance
  Poison resist         Hea          Hea               Ability to resist poisons
  Search                Sur          Sur               Ability to find things
  Speechcraft           Cha          Cha               Conversing
  Stamina               Hea          Hea               Ability to endure harsh conditions
  Stealth               Dex, wght    Dex - weight/20   How stealthy a character is.
  Street Smarts         Sur          Sur               Ability to navigate in cities
  Wilderness            Sur          Sur + ½ Str       Ability to camp, tie knots, Etc

***Mechanics:***

**Action Hierarchy:** In combat there are three types of actions that
can be taken:

Attack: Use a weapon against a foe

Move: Move to a new unit on the board

Small: Small actions are ones like loading crossbows, getting potions
out of hip bags, switching weapons.

Attacks can be traded in for moves, and moves can be traded in for small
actions.

**Armor:** Damage absorption. Reduces the damage taken from a physical
attack that connects by the same number of points as the armor provides.

**Armor Piercing (AP):** If a weapon is armor piercing, it ignores armor
entirely.

**Breath Weapon:** Utilizes 12 Magical stamina. There are six types:
Fire, Lightning, Necrotic, Earth, Cold and Water. Cone shaped, starts in
unit in front of dragonkin. Travels 10 feet.

**Brewing:** Potions must be brewed. One hour must be spent creating the
mix, and 8 hours must be spent adding magic to it. Potions must not be
disturbed while preparing or brewing or they will fail, and as such
cannot be brewed on the run or in a fight. Potion preparations can be
stored for two days before the brewing starts. Potions have a Spell
component cost determined by potion.

**Bullrush:** Once a day, an extra move action can be used in one turn.

**Carrying Cap:** Without any bags, only gold and what can be worn or
carried in the entity’s hands can be brought along. Bags can be bought
to allow for more items to be carried, but be mindful of the weight
limit. Items of negligible weight can be carried in pockets without
penalty. Only one potion may be carried in a pocket.

**Charm:** While charmed, an entity is not in control of its actions.
Instead, the charmer is in control. Charm can only take effect on
sapient entities not already under someone’s control, and the target
must be of the opposite gender or suffer a -1 penalty to have the charm
take effect.

1d20 + Cha vs 1d20 + Judgement

**Climbing:** An entity can climb a surface with a bonus equal to Str +
Dex. The challenge of the slope is determined by material and angle.

**Disarm:** People can be disarmed. Weapons fall to the ground, and can
be picked up with a small action.

**Dodge:** The chance an attack will miss altogether. Negative dodge
does not have any effect.

Dodge = 20 - size penalty - armor penalty + Dex

**Down:** When knocked down, movement speed is reduced to 2 units.
Standing up takes 3 units of movement to complete. All attacks made
while down take a -10 penalty to accuracy, and dodge takes a -10 point
penalty.

**Equipment:** Every humanoid entity has 7 slots to put gear into:

L and R rings, Head, Necklace, Torso, Legs, Shoes.

Only one ring can be worn on each hand.

**Experience:** Experience is earned in combat, by completing quests, by
winning skill challenges, and by talking to NPCs

**Fall damage:** When something falls, it takes 1d6 damage per unit
fallen.

**Fear:** Target of fear loses attack for 10 seconds.

1d20 + Speechcraft vs 1d20 + Judgement

**Flight:** Flight allows an entity to maneuver over obstacles. One must
be able to move to fly. Anything that restricts movement will cause a
flying entity to stop moving and fall. Maximum height is twice movement
speed of the entity. Grants +5 to dodge.

**Food:** Food can be filling, satiating, or mediocre.

**Force Feed:** You can feed or splash a potion to an unconscious or
willing participant with a small action. Must be in melee range. An
unwilling target requires an attack to feed the potion.

**Gold:** Currency in Glittershard. 1 gold is equivalent to a decent
meal, and 1 gold is equal 100 pennies for change.

**Healing:** Healing comes in two forms: Magical and Mundane

Magical healing: Adds amount of HP specified by treatment, removes
recovery point.

  Ailment       Description
  ------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Broken limb   Caused by blunt weapons, doing more than ¼ max health. Limb cannot be used to attack, and walking on limb will slow creature by 2 units.
  Open wound    Caused by bladed weapons, doing more than ¼ max health. Open wounds are susceptible to infections

**HP (Hit Points):** A measure of how healthy you are. If these fall
below 0, an entity falls unconscious. If twice the maximum number of HP
of damage is incurred, the entity dies outright.

Level 1 Max HP = Race base health + 3 \* Hea

**Infections:**

  Name:   Description
  ------- -------------
          
          
          
          

**Invisibility:** While invisible, an entity cannot be seen. They are
still physical, can make noise, and be attacked by creatures with
Enhanced senses.

**Kick away:** A move action can be used to knock a weapon on the ground
away.

**Level:** A rough estimate of how powerful an entity is. Level is also
used to determine how powerful spells are. Levels are gained through
experience

**Lucky:** Lucky weapons do additional 1d6 damage

**Magic stamina:** How much magic can be cast before it starts draining
hit points.

Max Magic Stamina = LM/DM/Wit \* 3 (Use largest of the three, does not
stack)

Magic stamina replenishes 1 point every ten seconds.

**Magical Components:** 10 Magical components can be used in place of
one Magical Stamina point.

**Max Weight** An entity can only carry so much weight. Once they exceed
this weight, movement speed is reduced by one for every 10 pounds over
max weight. Str and Dex take a -2 penalty.

Max weight = 50 + 10 \* Str

**Melee:** Melee attacks are attacks with short (5 ft) range.

Attack: Str + Weapon accuracy + 1d20

Hit: Str + Weapon damage

**Movement Speed:** The number of units an entity can move in one turn

Movement speed = 6 + ½ Dex

**Natural Weapons:** Some entities cannot hold weapons, but have claws
or beaks or horns.

  Implement           Accuracy   Mini   Sm    Med   Lar   Tower   Imme   Special
  ------------------- ---------- ------ ----- ----- ----- ------- ------ -------------------------------------------------
  Beak                +2         2      1d4   1d6   1d6   1d8     1d8    AP
  Claws               +1         3      1d4   1d6   1d8   1d10    1d10   
  Constriction        +3         1      3     1d4   1d4   1d6     1d8    Restricts movement
  Fangs               +2         3      1d4   1d4   1d6   1d6     1d6    Poisons target, Slow Attack
  Fangs - Vampire     +2         3      1d4   1d4   1d6   1d6     1d6    Drains blood and gain HP +3/10 sec, Slow Attack
  Hooves              0          2      3     1d4   1d4   1d6     1d8    Blunt
  Talons              +1         2      1d4   1d4   1d6   1d8     2d4    
  Teeth - Herbivore   +1         1      3     1d4   1d4   1d6     1d6    Slow Attack
  Teeth - Predator    +2         2      1d4   1d6   1d8   1d8     1d10   Slow Attack
  Unarmed fist        +1         1      1d4   1d6   1d6   1d8     1d8    Blunt, unarmed

**Overhealing:** When being healed, any healing done over the healed
entity’s max health is divided by two and added on top of the cap.
Overhealing is reduced by one hit point per round, and is subtracted
from health first.

**Paralyzed:** A paralyzed entity cannot move or take actions.

**Poison:** Poisons cause damage over time. A heal check of poison level
+ 1d10 (rolled when poison is applied) can be passed to get rid of the
poison.

**Ranged:** Ranged weapons are weapons that can attack at distances
greater than arm’s reach. These generally include bows, crossbows,
thrown daggers, Etc. Weapon determines accuracy, damage ratings, range,
ammunition type, loading times.

Attack: Dex + weapon accuracy + 1d20

Hit: Dex +Weapon damage

Bows require one small action to draw an arrow, and one small action to
get an arrow unless arrow is in a quiver.

Crossbows require two small actions to load a bolt, one small action to
tension the string, and one small action to retrieve a bolt if not in a
quiver. Crossbows can be pre-tensioned before battle, but cannot be kept
that way for long periods of time.

**Recovery:** How many times magical healing may be used on an
individual before potions and other medical supplies must be used to
stabilize an individual.

Recovery = Hea +2

**Senses:** Some entities have enhanced or reduced senses.

Nightvision - Can see without light present

Enhanced Sight/smell/hearing/touch/taste - Sense is twice as sharp under
same conditions

Poor Sight/smell/hearing/touch/taste - Sense is half as sharp under same
conditions

**Shaped attacks:** Some attacks have shapes.

Rectangle attacks fill a certain number of units at a time, for
specified width and height

Conical attacks have a point of origin, a direction, and a distance

**Shapeshifter:** The ability to change shape. If an entity can
shapeshift, it gains a +1 to deception checks if target is unaware of
the entity’s ability to shapeshift. Shapeshifts do not change the size
of entities.

**Size:** Winged creatures are medium with their wings folded up, and
large with them unfolded.

  Size       Dodge penalty   Speed penalty
  ---------- --------------- ---------------
  Mini       0               -2
  Small      -5              -1
  Medium     -10             0
  Large      -15             0
  Towering   -20             0
  Immense    -25             -1

**Sleep:** A character must rest for six hours within an eight hour
period every 36 hours or incur a -1 to all stats until rest is had.
Cannot sleep more than once every twelve hours.

**Slow Attack:** An attack with this tag means the creature cannot move
and use this attack

**Summons:** Summons are entities that exist separate from the
controlling entity. The summons have their own stats, and use the
actions of their controller.

**Training:** Training is the ability to do certain things. Playing an
instrument, smithing, brewing potions, etc.

**Transformation:** SImilar to the ability to shapeshift, but with only
one form. Form may be any Natural or humanoid Fey creature. When
transformed, all sense enhancements are lost and stats revert to 0 plus
any racial bonuses.

**Unit:** A unit is 5 ft x 5 ft x 5 ft.

**Unsleeping:** Does not require sleep. Instead, requires two hours of
downtime every 48 hours to recharge spells. Cannot rest more than once
every sixteen hours.

**Vampirism:** This disease causes the entity to need to suck blood from
a natural or fey creature every 24 hours or suffer -1 penalty to all
stats. If one target is drained three days in a row, that entity becomes
a zombie.

***Combat:***

**Combat** is started any time two parties are intent on using violence
on one another.

When combat is started, each character rolls a d20 and adds their Dex.
This is their initiative.

Highest number goes first, and higher Dex goes first in event of a tie.
Tie breaker from there is Sur. Further ties are determined by dice roll.

Each person gets four actions on their turn: 1 attack, 1 move, 2 small
actions

Each round of combat lasts ten seconds real time.

Combat ends when one side is defeated (Dead, unconscious, ran away)

**Skill challenges** start the same, but instead of enemies, it’s PVE.
Get initiatives, and creatively try to get around an obstacle using
skills instead of attacks. You need to succeed a certain number of times
before you fail a certain amount of times

***Leveling:***

When enough experience is earned, a level is gained. Health increases by
Hea (min 0) + ½ level per level.

  Level   Experience   Total Experience   Perks:
  ------- ------------ ------------------ -----------------------------------
  1       0            0                  Class, Race, 100 gold, 2 training
  2                                       +1 to a stat
  3                                       +1 skill point
  4                                       New class perk
  5                                       +1 skill point, 1 training
  6                                       +1 to a stat
  7                                       +1 skill point
  8                                       New class perk
  9                                       +1 skill point
  10                                      +1 to a stat, 1 training
  11                                      +1 skill point
  12                                      New class perk
  13                                      +1 skill point
  14                                      +1 to a stat
  15                                      +1 skill point, 1 training
  16                                      New class perk
  17                                      +1 skill point
  18                                      +1 to a stat
  19                                      +1 skill point
  20                                      New class perk, 1 training

**Supplemental material:**

Character sheet

Lorebook

Spell List

Class and Perks List

Item List

Bestiary

-   PC races

-   Monster creation steps

-   List of monsters

-   How to build fights

**To Do:**
Infections/diseases
XP table
